okay friends I want to share with you
where I think marketing is going long
term the next decade and and this is
It's a data informed but also opinion
informed so you can have your own
opinions but but this one is mine which
is I believe that the discovery
platforms the way that information is
picked up and conveyed to Consumers and
businesses is fundamentally different
today than it was kind of the last 20
years and that is mostly a result of
places like Google but not just Google
I'll show you a bunch of others choosing
to do this so if 10 years ago I
performed a search for decking ideas for
small gardens I would get a list like
these of websites with information I
would click to them I would explore my
options in those places but not anymore
right now what is happening is Google is
is suggesting surrounding your decking
with plants and then they're providing
information creating shaded areas over
your decking and then they're providing
all this information essentially I'm I'm
experiencing the content I'm learning
about my options and possibilities right
in the results essentially they're
competing with can you give me some good
ideas around decking for a small garden
in my backyard from chat GPT they're
competing with AI tools and they are
nervous I I think uh Chach EBT is now in
the top 10 most visited websites in the
United
States I'm sure that's scaring the
people at Google right and so they're
trying to become this experience where
you can solve your problems and get
information more and more and this is
why you know all of our research shows
that um essentially you know uh uh
two-thirds of Google searches stay in
Google's ecosystem only onethird go out
to the open web uh this is why all of
this um you know zero click phenomenon
is happening and and if I look through
Spar Toro at people who you know search
for decking information I can see that
you know they're visiting these
different websites and
uh using these social networks that
they're following these sour of social
uh social influence right so they're
subscribing to these YouTube channels
like this one from tracks which
essentially competing for the same thing
they are creating the demand they're
creating the information here's the r
Home Improvement which is extremely well
subscribed to tons of people as we can
see from Spar Toro's data down here
right this is the most uh visited most
engaged with subreddit for folks who
search for decking and and surprised so
what I believe is happening is we're
moving from a world where people search
out information go to a website a small
Business website and then uh learn from
there and and become your customer and
instead it's these few platforms that
are dominating all of our time and
attention including places like Facebook
even right uh architect magazine and and
Builder like they they have a lot of the
attention here chat GPT
Google all these places are taking the
attention and opportunity away from
websites and so where is the advice that
I would have given that content
marketers and seos and social media
marketers would have given you 10 years
ago is you should build lots of content
on your
website content of all kinds that can
help you with decking of all kinds
that's not what I would say today what I
would say based on the information is I
would say your job is
essentially to do PR and content
marketing across all the platforms that
you know your audience pays attention to
PR is sort of the the uh the future in
my opinion of where a ton of marketing
has to go especially content placement I
I don't necessarily need all my decking
information to go onto my website but I
definitely want it to get upvoted in our
home Improvement I want it to be
featured on YouTube so that it appears
in Google I want it to appear uh on
Facebook in these communities where
people pay attention in the pages that
people pay attention to I want it on
these podcasts and YouTube channels I
want it in these news sources right I
want to get picked up by architect
magazine because that's what powers
these things when you see in here
choosing seating or build a raise
decking or build a custom deck or any of
the advice that you get from Chachi BT
because of how large language models
working that is because text
appears next to other text on the
internet in the training model right the
words floating deck and Corner decking
and vertical garden integration and
small deck with fire pit those words
appear around decking and small gardens
and backyard on the web and PR is how
you get into those models it's how you
influence Google it's how you influence
all these other social channels it's how
you influence what Reddit talks about
it's how you influence what the YouTube
talk about it's how you influence what
social media uh uh influencers talk
about that's the future I look PR has
kind of been I don't want to say
ostracized but it's been minimized in
value because people think oh nobody
reads journalists or or the media
anymore but that's not what PR is in the
digital era I think the digital era of
PR is actually just starting and I think
it's going to be as big as the content
marketing Trend was in ' 07 it's going
to be as big as the SEO Trend was the
last 20
years it's it's coming that's what's
coming for us